How you present executives.
Now the truth is that presenting two executives can be very daunting.
Imagine you walk into a boardroom and there's five or seven of them are sitting there all staring at
you even staring you down and you have to say something of value to them and then waiting for it.
Now be prepared for that.
Be prepared for the fact that it can be a terrifying experience especially for a wince at first sight
.
But at the same time I understand that there are also people that are just people who you're presenting
They're very busy people.
They it's very hard to get their attention or I would say on an average like seven minutes more than
seven minutes you're stretching it.
They're very busy people but they are people so just presented them like you would normally be yourself
.
Just just go ahead with your presentation.
You should be fine.
But take into account these falling points executives love dollar amounts.
They they all have budgets and they all need to meet them and they need to understand what are we talking
about.
What is the dollar value on top of that.
So how much will that save the company how much will this earn the company how much is it how much will
this cost the company.
Things like that.
So in your analysis what whatever you find try to quantify in dollar terms.
I know it can be hard sometimes it can be complex to find a translation from say an A customer experience
that you improved into how much dollars that's going to the company but come up with ideas maybe on
which customers will that retain over the course of a year or how many additional new customers are
going to come to company because of that like provide some estimates or don't.
Why didn't have them in your head or read or written down somewhere so you can open them up and explain
if you you're asked that question because you probably will.
How much pressure comes up.
80 percent of the time when you're talking to executives.
The other thing that executives like is drilling all down into detail.
So we were kind of lucky that we're in data science right so rarely you'll have a cheap DOT officer
in an organization and so rarely you'll have somebody very technical on one of the executives who can
drill really drill into the details and plus they wold really have the time to go through all these
technical things with you.
So we're kind of a bit immune in that sense that it's hard to get into the details of data but that
is actually a misconception or like it thought your immune in a sense but at the same time it also adds
a bit and then another layer of complication on top of everything because you have to be able to explain
in detail without going to technical things.
So that's a whole different art form you've got you've got to be prepared that you're going to ask you
detailed questions where the ulcers would normally be technical but you've got to explain them in a
normal human being kind of way so be prepared for that executives really like to dig into details.
And you never know where it's going to go.
Like I get every time I.
I am amazed that you know like you've got this presentation and then they just we were off into one
direction and they all somehow agree were on on the fact that you've got to we were off veer off into
this this direction and they keep asking you questions about that so you really can't prepare for everything
.
But try but try to prepare for everything.
Executives will ask those questions.
That's the thing.
On certain terms of questions I've got I've got a note here.
Make like this is this a tip for you.
So if you've got a presentation and there's something obvious in your presentation I would say like
a flight chart.
And then there's a spike somewhere.
But at the same time that Spike is not the focus of your presentation you're talking about something
else this is just like an exhilarate chart that is talking about something that is assisting your final
conclusion.
Well what you can do is you can leave out the explanation of that spike.
So instead of like an on the wrong person would obviously talk about that spike and I would say because
the anomaly would explain all that that happened because it was a weekend and we didn't have enough
data or or those of the public hold they are something good.
So if you leave it out.
What that creates is it creates an opportunity for somebody to ask that question and because it's so
obvious it's probably going to be the first question.
And how does that help.
Well it helps in the sense that it will get the Kewney going it will get people asking questions and
getting engaged.
And you like you don't want to end your presentation.
And for there to be silence.
Right.
Unless unless it's it's like a procession to a large audience where you're not expected to meet with
executives you usually want a Q and A afterwards.
So for them to be like and get to show you that they were engaged in your presentation and you actually
did deliver value you got their interests and a good way to do that is if you leave out something obvious
that they're definitely going to ask.
You can and then they will ask.
And that means the first question is there you're answering and other people are thinking about other
questions and gets that live like a live Q&A like that going.
So those are my tips in terms of presenting it to executives.
Make sure you know your dollar amounts.
Make sure you know your details.
Maybe leave out something so that you can get the Q&A going.
Be prepared that it might be a daunting experience but at the same time they're just people so you know
you'll be fine after a couple times you'll get comfortable presenting to.